Alerting: Sanitize invalid label/annotation names for external alertmanagers (#54537)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/fundamentals/annotation-label/how-to-use-labels.md

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/rule-edit-details-8-0.png" max-width="550px" caption="Alert details" >}}

# External Alertmanager Compatibility

> Grafana's built-in Alertmanager supports both Unicode label keys and values; however, if using an external Prometheus Alertmanager label keys must be compatible with their [data model](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/#metric-names-and-labels).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana's built-in Alertmanager supports both Unicode label keys and values. If you are using an external Prometheus Alertmanager, label keys must be compatible with their [data model](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/#metric-names-and-labels).
```

> This means label keys must only contain **ASCII letters**, **numbers**, as well as **underscores** and match the regex `[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]*`.
> Any invalid characters will be removed or replaced by the Grafana alerting engine before being sent to the external Alertmanager according to the following rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that label keys must only contain **ASCII letters**, **numbers**, as well as **underscores** and match the regex `[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]*`.
Any invalid characters will be removed or replaced by the Grafana alerting engine before being sent to the external Alertmanager according to the following rules:
```

- `Whitespace` will be removed.
- `ASCII characters` will be replaced with `_`.

> - `All other characters` will be replaced with their lower-case hex representation. If this is the first character it will be prefixed with `_`.

Reviewer 2: I think we should move "If this is the first character it will be prefixed with `_`." to the same level with other rules because we add `_` to not just sanitized unicode characters but to strings that starts with a number.
